Process for declaring something as public PHP API for plugins (#468)
piwik/developer-documentation: docs/4.x/apis.md

If the change is a new config or a config change, then it's usually not mentioned in the developer changelog as they are mostly meant for users and not for developers.

## PHP Plugin API

### Process for declaring something as public API for plugins

We provide a [public PHP API for plugins](https://developer.matomo.org/api-reference/classes) so plugins can extend and customise Matomo. For example, they allow plugins to define new reports, widgets and track additional data. They also provide utility methods to store data, to show notifications, to define settings and more.

> We aim to make as few classes as needed a public API yet as many as possible. Generally, to make a method or a class a public API the following criteria needs to be fulfilled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We aim to make as few classes as needed a public API, since they will be required to remain backwards compatible, while still providing plugin developers with a large enough stable API to effectively build with. Generally, to make a method or a class a public API the following criteria needs to be fulfilled:
```

Reviewer: thought this sounded a bit clearer

Author: great 👍

If the change is a new config or a config change, then it's usually not mentioned in the developer changelog as they are mostly meant for users and not for developers.

## PHP Plugin API

### Process for declaring something as public API for plugins

We provide a [public PHP API for plugins](https://developer.matomo.org/api-reference/classes) so plugins can extend and customise Matomo. For example, they allow plugins to define new reports, widgets and track additional data. They also provide utility methods to store data, to show notifications, to define settings and more.

We aim to make as few classes as needed a public API yet as many as possible. Generally, to make a method or a class a public API the following criteria needs to be fulfilled:

* The method or class has existed for ideally more than a year and there were very little to no changes to it. This means we can consider this API as a stable component that is unlikely to change again soon. Making something a public API means we can make changes to it only as part of a major version upgrade because of our [backwards compatibility promise](#our-backwards-compatibility-promise).

> * The component is used ideally at least by two plugins in different ways so we no the API works well for various use cases. The more the API is used by core or plugins the better.

Reviewer: small change `no` => `know`

* We have written a plugin developer guide on this website as part of the "Develop" section. This is important because when documenting something you often notice that something may be hard to use or hard to explain meaning the API can be improved maybe making it a public API. 

> * The API follows our principle of being very easy to use for most of the use cases yet it allows to be used in very advanced ways. A good example is for example our [Tasks API](/api-reference/Piwik/Plugin/Tasks) where you simply define for example `$this->hourly('myTask');` to run an hourly task but you can also use it in a very advanced way if needed (for example `$this->custom($customSchedule, ...)`).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The API follows our principle of being very easy to use for most of the use cases, yet it allows to be used in very advanced ways. A good example is for example our [Tasks API](/api-reference/Piwik/Plugin/Tasks) where you simply define for example `$this->hourly('myTask');` to run an hourly task, but you can also use it in a very advanced way if needed (for example `$this->custom($customSchedule, ...)`).  
```

> * The API is needed to provide a good user experience (fast, easy to use and learn, stable to use, ...) or to enrich Matomo's capabilities.

Reviewer: might sound better if `is needed to provide` => `must provide`

Author: Cheers @diosmosis I meant it more along the lines of 

```
The API is needed for a plugin developer to provide a good user experience (fast, easy to use and learn, stable to use, ...) or to enrich Matomo's capabilities.
```
but realise it maybe not that useful and just removed the point for now.
